Module#2

IAM - Roles - Temporary User Credentials to access the resource.

Deploy an application
Instance or VM: CPU, Ram, Disk, OS, Network, Application Configuration

Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) 
Compute is IaaS.

EC2 can be initialized from a template (i.e blueprint) or cloning.

7 step workflow for launching a EC2 instance.
- Choose AMI
- Choose Instance Type
- Configure Instance
- Add Storage
- Add Tags
- Configure Security Group
- Review

Own Image (AMI - Amazon Machine Image): 2 ways: OVA on S3 or find nearest fit and save as AMI.

AMI - 
	Root device type is on ebs (ephiremal) (storage volume) or instance store (temporary)
	Virtulization Type: HVM
	ENA - Enhanced Networking Avaliable or not.
	ami-id is unique region wise. name can remain same.
	regional resource like S3. If you need it in another region, you need to copy it to other region.
	
Placement Group - all EC2 instances are in same rack. Very low latency, high computation, single point of failure.
	- Spread, Cluster, Partition.
	- Clustered - physically close to each other (i.e same rack)
	- Spread - 
Placement Groups and Target Groups are different concepts.
Placement Groups are used when you want your application which is running on multiple instances inside a Placement Group to deliver high performance. 
This high performance is achieved by leveraging the placement of these instances, depending on the type of Placement Group 
	( Spread - if you want the instances to spread across an hardware, 
	Partition - Spread across logical partitions, 
	Cluster - packs instances inside AZ ) the instances will be placed. 
	You would need this when you realize there is a lot of network latency (subsequent performance degradation) due to interdependence 
	and in order to minimize this you would want to place the instances close to each other and use Placement Group.

Target Group on the other hand is used by an Application Load Balancer - When you create each listener rule while configuring Application Load Balancer, you specify a target group and conditions. 
When a rule condition is met, traffic is forwarded to the corresponding target group.

Inside each Target Group is a set of targets which are registered whose health are being monitored by the load balancer constantly.You can either specify Instance ID, IP Addresses or Lambda functions as these targets.

Amazon Marketplace
GIB - Giga Bytes (as multiples of 1024 Bytes), TIB, MIB

VPC  - Virtual Private Cloud
Subnet - Physical Seperation of AZ in the region

Spot Instances - Demand and Supply Prices
A fleet of spot instances will provide the most cost-effective solution for astateless,fault-tolerant use-case like batch jobs

Stop vs Terminate: 
	stop: Return VM to AWS, Disks are retained with you.
	Terminate: return VM and Disks are returned back AWS. Nothing in your hands.
	
Tenancy:
Multi tenancy if VM A belong to bank A and VM B to belong bank B even though both VM are on same host.
Dedicated - Single host and VM
Dedicated Host - Single Host with multiple VM belonging to same financial institution. Physical Server.

T2 Unlimited - CPU Credits generated if cpu is not 100% used and when  goes beyond 100%, use it from cpu credits.
CPU Credits should be used as fallback. Application should not depend on cpu credits and should depend on goto. Customers will experience latency if cpu is maxed as 100% due to 0 cpu credits.


Hibernate - Max Hibernate Period is 60 days.

Cassandara - 2 IP - one for internal communication and one for external communication.

EBS Elastic Block Storage
- General Purpose SSD
- Provisioned IOPS
- Magnetic
- Cold - Attach, Non bootable Disk, Storing application generated Data.

Suggestion:-
	SSD - Gp2 - Most Workloads
	SSD - Io1 - Mission Critical Application Dbs
	HDD - SC1 - Big Data and Warehouse
	HDD - St1 - File Servers
	HDD - Standard - (magnetic taprs) workloads where data is rarely used.

Protect Data on disk using KMS. boot Disc is not applicable. generate your own AMI for boot disc to be encrypted.

Boot disc size is picked up depending on OS size. Ubuntu is 8 GiB, windows 30 GiB

Elastic IP ??? vs public IP

Possible to launch without key pair - yes

yum repository for centos/AMI family & apt repository for debian family (ubuntu).

security group is stateful.


Load Balancer : cannot span across multiple regions but they can span across multiple availability zones.
	- will give DNS
	- stateful/stateless
	- Across AZ.
LB - Region Centric Service.

Route 53 - DNS Service which is like a LB and help is achieving to redirection of traffic to different regions.


Http/https - port 80 & 443 come be preconfigured.

Target Groups - tells a Load Balancer where to direct traffic.
	Target Types - instance, IP, Lambda

Load Balancer as service - LB is able to connect to on prim instances using vpn.

ALB - Layer 7, web based, http
Network LB - Layer 4, tcp session is tied with same web server, scaling can be in millions.
Classic LB - Layer 3, Directly attach to EC2 while Other LB talks to Target groups. Target Group concept is not there.
Gateway LB - virual applicane
	Elastic BeanStalk Service uses Classic LB.
	
Internal Load Balancer - Web application talks to Back end Database and not to expose DB.

Instances Pricing: OnDemand, Spot, Reserved, Dedicated Hosts.

Security Group -Firewall at VM level.

Launch without Key pair - Possible during Scaling.

Linux Instance
default login name is ec2-user.
sudo yum update
sudo yum install http-server
http://3.228.3.51/
http://3.87.94.38/
http://34.239.104.142/

echo "web server 1" > /usr/share/httpd/noindex/index.html
echo "ok 1" > /var/www/html/health.html


Cost Optimization Pillar:-
1. Automation - Auto Scaling
2. Decommision Resources
3. Cost - EC2 ASG
4. Dynamic Supply
5. Scheduling



Internet Traffic -> Load Balancer -> Target group -> Auto Scaling group (ASG)
	ASG is being launched by Launch Template (LT)

Health Check Period - verifying machine is up and service is running.
Warm Up Period - The period after which the new instance can come in ASG calculation for deciding the action to be taken.

Request to start instance will start coming after health Check Period but for calculation, it will be after warm up period.





